There is something deeply unsettling about the unfolding events in the United States over the past few weeks. It feels like we are accelerating down a troubling path that many had anticipated since Trump's election, and even before during the presidential campaign. There is a palpable sense of terror in observing the world around us—seemingly unchanged, quiet, and resilient—while a deluge of media announcements cascades over us. What makes it even more appalling is the stable, undisrupted rhythm by which reckless, destructive decisions are being imposed on us, as if we are being forcefully carried on a conveyor belt to an inevitable catastrophe with no apparent escape.

I say "us" because I feel the horror of the situation not just for Americans, but for "us" citizens of the world. The notion that America's decisions affect only America is a dangerous misconception. We share the same air, the same sun, the same planet, yet we fail to recognize that our choices impact society and our environment as a whole. There is no absolution for such behavior; it represents the epitome of a failed society. I strongly believe that a failure to correct course will set us on a trajectory of irredeemable consequences, one that will compel me to point my finger at you the U.S. electorate and hold you accountable for your choices. When dust settles, only this will stay.

Should I act? Certainly. Yet a part of me feels so terrified and helpless that I retreat to dark corners as a coping mechanism. When the power of direct action is too feeble, voice is the next best thing.
